**Shannon Bartkiw**

6021 36th Ave NE, Seattle, WA 98115

206.227.5806

shnnnbrtkw@gmail.com

---


1.  *Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?*
I am interested in programming because of the opportunity to be creative AND analytical in a field that is in high demand. I have been out of the workforce for the last 10 years raising my family, but it is time for me to once again be more than "just" a mom. Not only do I want this for myself, to feel that I'm a contributing member to society and helping to provide some financial stability to my family, but I would also like my child to see that what Ruth Bader Ginsburg said is true, "you can't have it all, all at once"... but over a lifetime you can. While returning to my previous field is not out of the question, environmental consulting provided few opportunites for creativity, and is closely linked to the uncertainty of construction industry cycles. My knowledge and skills are also tied to the Pacific Northwest, and after having moved far from here several times in the last few years, I truly appreciate the importance of skills that can be used anywhere in the world. 
In the past year, I have taken a one-day programming course at CodeFellows introducing html and CSS, where my team created a dating website for fictional holiday characters. I have also started an online data anlysis with R course, since that could be beneficial whether I go into programming or back into environmental consulting. 
   
2.  *If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?*
If I'm accepted into Ada's program, in five years I picture myself doing web development for either a travel services company or a health and human rights non-profit organization. I realize these are very different paths, but thanks to my love of travel, I can see myself making a positive contribution to that industry. On the other hand, my volunteer work in recent years has been focused on children and food security. I would love to feel that the work I was doing was helping people around the world. 

3.  *After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?*
I will contribute to Ada's vision for a diverse and inclusive community by representing some of the many women who take time out of their careers to raise a family. Getting into the professional workforce is hard enough, even with an advanced degree. Getting back into it after 10 years seems to be a mountainous task. There are hundreds of articles and videos aimed at women who want to get back to work telling you how to spin the skills used to raise a child or run a household to look marketable on a resume. There are fewer options, however, if you want to change professions without going through more traditional schooling. 
Going back to work does not mean that parenting duties lessen, and I have every intention to still "be there" for my child. As a society, there seems to be an increasing focus on improving work-life balance. In this, the tech industry is both leading the way ([parental leave policies](http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2016/03/tech-paid-paternity-leave/473922/), [Amazon's part-time program](https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-switch/wp/2016/08/26/amazon-is-piloting-teams-with-a-30-hour-work-week/)) and trailing far behind ([video game industry burnout](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2015/feb/18/crunched-games-industry-exploiting-workforce-ea-spouse-software)). The more balance and career flexibility is supported, the more women I believe would remain in tech, enhancing the diversity that is paramount to Ada's vision. As a working mother in the tech industry, I hope to be part of the growth in balanced, supportive work environments we all need.   

4.  *Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?*
 While in graduate school, in order to help make ends meet, I worked part-time as a baker for a corporate caterer. If an event was scheduled for early in the morning, all the pastries were baked off the night before. It was the habit of most of the bakers to make a few extras, just in case, and most of the cleaning crew knew it. At the end of my shift, after hours of mixing, forming, proofing and baking a few dozen muffins and croissants, I had my order ready to go for the next day, but as I was turning off the ovens and wrapping up the order, I noticed that there was an empty spot on my baking sheet where a croissant had once been. It was not a large order to begin with, and I knew that I had baked the full amount, but no extras. I had to choose between staying a few extra hours to bake a single croissant or... not. I chose to go home. Before I left, I wrote a note for the morning baker, and put a few croissants in the fridge in the hope that they would proof overnight and could be baked first thing in the morning. 
The croissants didn't rise and the order went out short. Needless to say, the customer was not happy, my boss was not happy, and I and the cleaning staff got in trouble (although thankfully nobody lost their job). If I encountered the situation again, I would have done more to ensure the customer was happy such as put extra muffins in the order to make up for the shortfall. I have since always made extras when baking, because when it comes to sweets, as with many other things in life, it's so much better to share the extras than to not have enough to go around. 

